SUSAN KENNEDY: Hi my name is Susan Kennedy
and I'll be your guest lecture on responsible AI design.
I have a PhD in philosophy with a specialization in ethics,
and my current research focuses on the ethical, social, and political impacts
of emerging technologies.
I'm here to talk to you about how you can proactively incorporate ethics
into your workflow so that you can pursue innovative applications of AI
in a responsible manner.
During your introduction to responsible AI,
you were shown the human-centered design framework.
Following this framework, we're now going
to focus on the ethical challenges that arise
during the first stage of innovation, the design phase.
The specific questions we'll think about are, what am I building
and what is the goal?
Currently, the hype surrounding AI is at an all time high
as it looks like a promising avenue to tackle
some of the world's biggest challenges.
As Nick Bostrom, a philosopher at the University of Oxford, has said,
machine intelligence is the last invention
that humanity will ever need to make.
Without a doubt, the capabilities of AI are promising.
But with that being said, as a designer, it's important to keep in mind
the AI is not always the best solution.
Earlier in this course, Lawrence explained the difference
between traditional programming and machine
learning in terms of how they operate.
To be reminded, with traditional programming,
we combine data inputs with rules to get answers, whereas with machine learning,
we combine data with answers so that our model can generate the rules.
Now we're going to take a closer look at the pros and cons of each
so that we can make a more informed decision about when
we should choose a machine learning model as a solution to some problem.
In some scenarios, traditional programming
will work just as well if not better than machine learning.
It's particularly suited to situations in which there
are lower volumes of data and the rules are relatively simple.
Some pros of traditional programming is that it's quicker
to build, easier to explain, easier to debug, easier to maintain,
and offers more consistent performance.
Some downsides of traditional programming is that it does not scale,
it does not adapt or update on its own, and it's not worked well for complex
tasks that would require a huge amount of rules or rules that domain experts
cannot specify.
In contrast, machine learning offers some important benefits
over traditional programming.
It can be used to solve complex problems,
it can scale adapt and update on its own,
and offer a personalized user experience, and improve over time.
Some downsides of machine learning models is that they're slower to build,
as they require the collection of vast amounts of data and time
to train the model.
They're harder to interpret and explain, also known as the Black Box Problem,
and relatedly, they're harder to debug for this reason.
Now that we've seen some trade offs between traditional programming
and machine learning, we want to keep this in mind
when we think about what our goal is.
The most comprehensive way to think about what our goal is
to answer these four questions.
What is the problem?
Why does it need to be solved?
How could the problem be solved manually with traditional programming?
And will AI offer unique value?
Let's look at what the answers to these questions
might look like by considering a case study
you watched a video about earlier, where AI
was used for the diagnosis of diabetic retinopathy or DR for short.
The problem is achieving an early diagnosis of DR progression
from color fundus photographs of the retina.
The problem needs to be solved because DR is reaching epidemic proportions,
and early diagnosis would allow for intervention and prevention
of further DR progression.
The problem could be solved manually if we collected data
from retina specialists or trained graders
and then wrote rules based on the presence of hemorrhages
and micro aneurysms.
But will AI offer unique value?
Seems like the answer is, yes.
Machine learning can improve predictions about the progression
of DR for individual patients and identify patterns and images that were
previously unrecognized by experts.
When you design your own applications, you
want to answer these questions to make sure you have a clearly defined goal
and you choose the right model, either machine
learning or traditional programming, to pursue this goal.
A final point worth taking into consideration
is how you can define your goals for positive social impact.
This is commonly referred to as AI for social good
by experts in both industry and academia, who
recognize the importance of using AI and machine learning to help address
the world's most pressing challenges.
For example, AI has been used for image classification
to spot elephant poachers and for sound detection
to stop illegal deforestation.
It's easy to see how these innovations are making the world a better place,
but you may be wondering, how would I be able to identify problems
at the societal level that need to be addressed?
The good news is the United Nations has put together a list of 17 goals
as part of their 2030 agenda for sustainable development,
and it spans issues ranging from ending poverty and world hunger,
improving health and education, and reducing inequality and injustice.
This will help you identify problems you care about
so you can spend your time creating a solution.
Now there are some challenges facing AI for social good,
such as learning with limited data, geographical imbalances,
biased data, and learning with limited memory and computation.
But now there's a window of opportunity thanks
to cutting edge innovations in TinyML.
it's pushing the boundaries for learning with limited memory and computation
and has other unique affordances like being
battery-operated, on-device computing, low latency, low cost, and small size.
Just take a look at this image of the world's smallest microprocessor that
fits on the dimple of a golf ball.
It will now be possible to explore the benefits of AI
in domains that were previously inaccessible.
We can sprinkle sensors across the forest to aid conservation efforts
or embed TinyML in everyday household items to make our lives easier.
With such exciting and new possibilities,
we can't wait to see what you will create.
Head into the discussion forum and let us
know how you imagine TinyML being designed for social good.