BRIAN PLANCHER: All right, now it's time to begin a series of tests
to make sure that everything is working with your hardware and software setup.
We'll start with the Arduino blink example.
That example does kind of what it sounds like it would do.
It blinks the LED in the top left corner of your Arduino.
Mine is currently just off.
So to get to that example, we're going to use the File menu.
Under File, we're going to go to Examples.
Then under built-in examples, we're going to select Basics.
And under basics, we're going to select Blink.
And this will open up a new Arduino IDE window for the blink
example, which we can maximize.
We'll talk about the code in a minute.
But first, let's just deploy it to your Arduino
to make sure everything's working.
To do that, we're going to need to go to the Tools menu,
and make sure that the board says Arduino Nano 33 BLE.
If it doesn't, we can get to that by going over Mbed OS Boards,
and then selecting the correct board.
We also need to make sure the port is selected.
Currently, minus empty.
Now when you go to port, you might actually
see a couple of different things here.
And exactly what you see will depend on what operating system you're using.
We've described that in detail below, so please check the reading
depending on your operating system.
I'm using Windows, so usually the serial ports show up as comm something.
And the important one we're looking for is
we're looking for the port that has Arduino Nano 33
BLE in parentheses next to it.
Again, you might have multiple ports there,
so please select the one that says Arduino.
Once you do that, you can just click the Upload button on the top over here,
and that will start to compile the sketch.
You can see this compiling happening over here,
and you can see the debug output in your console
if you selected your preferences to have the verbose debug.
If you didn't, you might not see as much.
Once it's done compiling, it will start to upload the code to our Arduino.
And at that point, the text will change from white to orange.
And you can see that here as we're having our percentage uploading going.
And there, we have done in 3.642 seconds.
And if we go over and look at our Arduino,
we can see that that top left light is blinking on and off.
And that's exactly what we want to see.
You've now deployed your first Arduino sketch to your Arduino.
And you know that at least at that level, that's working.
And so I'll see you in the next test.