BRIAN PLANCHER: The next sensor that we're going to test
is your inertial measurement unit.
We're going to open the example again in the same way
by going to File, Examples, Harvard_TinyMLx, test-IMU.
And again, as always, we're going to make sure that the board and the port
are correctly selected.
And we're going to go and upload and compile that code.
And once that's all up on your device, we
can talk about how to actually use it to test your sensor.
All right, now that you've deployed your code, let's use it to test the IMU.
To do that, we're going to use the serial monitor and serial
plotter just like in the last test.
So let's start by opening up that serial monitor.
And again, make sure the port is still selected.
So when we open up the serial monitor, we're
going to get a window with some instructions about the three tests
we can use.
A, G, and M, which will display the accelerometer, the gyroscope,
and the magnetometer, which are the three different sensors
that make up an IMU.
Now just like in the last test, if we do it in the serial monitor,
we're just going to see those numbers getting displayed to the screen.
So let's move over to the serial plotter where we can actually
get a graph of that output.
And I'm going to use G for the gyroscope because I
find that that's the easiest one to test and the easiest one to visualize.
And what the gyroscope is asking for, or displaying,
is the angular acceleration.
And that is the rate of change of the orientation of the board.
And since the board is flat on the table,
we see basically just a little bit of noise around zero.
But if we pick it up and start to yaw about one axis,
suddenly, we're going to see a huge spike and trough in the green line.
And if we change the axis about which we are rotating it--
so let's say we start to pitch it up and down--
now we can get the orange line excited.
And if we, say, roll it back and forth, now we can get the blue line excited.
And so that is a really great test to see if your IMU is working.
If you can just yaw it, pitch it, and roll it, and get
the blue green and orange lines to be excited individually,
then your IMU should be working great.
You can also test the accelerometer and the magnetometer as well if you'd like.
And once you're done with that, I will see you in the camera test.