VIJAY JANAPA REDDI: Hi, in this video I'm
very excited to introduce a TinyML Course Kit.
This is a kit that we developed in conjunction with Arduino
and is widely available to everyone across the world.
One of the cool things about this kit is the fact
that we designed this kit to be extensible.
In other words, while this kit serves as a basis for you
to experiment with everything that we teach you in this course,
it's also got capabilities that allow you
to expand outside of this course using the learnings that you
get from this course.
Let me introduce you to the kit components
so you get familiar with what's in it.
First and foremost is the Arduino Nano 33 BLE Sense.
Now, this is the brains of your TinyML Kit.
Now, you know the Nano 33 by now because I've shown it to you
a thousand times on my slides.
But hopefully, you're finally excited to hold it in your hand.
This is a small little microcontroller development
board, which has got all the elements of a modern embedded computing
system on it.
For example, it's got a rich number of sensors, it's got a microphone,
it's got an IMU, it's got a light sensor, it's got an intensity sensor.
And it's also got actuators in the form of RGB LED indicators
that allow you to understand if the machine is trying
to communicate something to you according
to what you've written in the code.
It's also got a communication hardware module, specifically
in the form of Bluetooth, which allows you to transmit data
without having a cable tethered to it, which makes it quite exciting.
And it's something we will be using for the magic wand example.
We can actually interface that Nano 33 with a camera module, as shown here.
The OV 7675 camera module is a low voltage color CMOS image sensor which
got a couple of break out pins on it.
Now, this camera module outputs a resolution
of about 0.3 megapixel, which is sufficient for the kind of things
that we will be doing for our TinyML use cases.
Now because it's got so many pins, one of the problems
that we often tend to have is that students will incorrectly
wire the different pins.
And that leads to a lot of problems in debugging.
In order to get rid of that problem and make things easier,
we designed the TinyML shield.
The TinyML shield is basically a daughter PCB board
that's designed to have many I/O pins that
allow you to easily interface the Nano 33 and the camera module together.
But not only that, it's also got a lot of flexibility built into it.
Specifically, if you look at the bottom of the board,
that's where your Nano 33 is going to easily plug in.
Now if you look at the top of the board, that's
where the pins of the OV7675 camera module get plugged in.
Now, that's it.
You don't have to worry about any wires in order
to connect those bazillion pins that are staring at you on the camera module.
No mistakes.
We'll be able to get started immediately.
Another nice thing about this particular TinyML shield
is the fact that it allows you to interface the Nano 33 BLE
Sense with many other kinds of sensors.
You're not restricted to just the sensors that are on the board.
So on the right hand side of the board, you'll
find standard Grove connectors that allow you to have serial communication
with other types of sensors.
On the left hand side of the board are also another set of Grove connectors
that allow you to break out with analog and digital GPIO pins.
In other words, you will be able to use these GPIO pins to interface with LEDs,
buzzers, buttons, and so forth.
Here are some examples of the kind of sensors that you
might be able to interface with.
For example, you might be able to interface with the thermocouple sensor.
Or you might be able to interface with an optical rotary encoder.
And these are sensors that you would buy separately.
And they come with a cable that can easily
plug into the sides of the board.
So therefore, the TinyML shield allows you
to explore much more than what we do in this particular class.
Finally, right on the bottom, there's a programmable button
that's on the left hand side.
And it's got a screw terminal for external power on the right.
The screw terminal allows you to easily and safely connect a battery
to make the system fully independent.
In other words, you can completely disconnect all the wires
and be able to interact with the device while it's still
on using battery power.
In other words, you might be able to hold the device up and take
a selfie just like that.
So with all that said, I hope you're excited about the TinyML Kit.
We spent a lot of time thinking about what's
the most easiest and convenient way of packaging up the materials for you
so that you can focus on what really matters and not get distracted
by the physical components and the mechanics that are
needed to get the whole thing running.