BRIAN PLANCHER: Now that you have the Arduino IDE installed,
let's work on setting it up for the rest of this course.
We're going to start by installing the board files
we need for Arduino Nano 33 BLE [? sense. ?]
To do that, we're going to go to the Menu.
Although, if you did plug-in your Arduino,
you might have noticed that there's this little pop up
on the bottom left that says install this package
to use your Arduino Nano 33 BLE board.
By clicking that link, it'll actually get you to the same place
exactly where we want to go.
But let's assume you haven't plugged in the board, or you haven't x-ed it out,
and don't know how to get that link back.
Well, what you're going to want to do is go
to Tools and then to Board, where you might
see Arduino Uno already populated.
And then we're going to open the Boards Manager.
Inside the Boards Manager, we're going to go up to the top
here and search for Nano 33 BLE.
And when we do that, up at the top, we're
going to find this Arduino Mbed Enabled Boards board file library.
And that's what we want.
And we want to make sure to install version--
well, at the time of this recording, its version 1.3.1,
but please check the reading to make sure that hasn't changed.
And then click Install.
And once you click Install, you should see
this blue bar going across the bottom.
And it should start to move quite quickly.
And then as it gets to the end, it might hang for a long time.
Don't be alarmed.
Don't worry.
Just let it run.
It could take five minutes, 10 minutes.
Sometimes, what will happen is that on Windows machines,
you might need to approve an administrator pop-up to allow it
to install some USB drivers or whatnot.
And so just be patient with it and let it do its thing.
Mine seems to be hanging.
This is a Windows machine.
And so, yeah, just be patient, and eventually it will complete.
And then you'll be ready to move on to the next step.
So I'm going to hang here for a little while and wait for it to finish.
All right, and so now after a little bit of waiting,
your board files will be installed, and you
can see this teal installed in all caps next to the version of your board
files.
And you should be all set.
The last thing we're going to do before we move on is actually show you
how to select the board.
So if you go again to Tools and to Board,
instead of using the Arduino Uno, we can go under the Mbed OS boards,
and we can select the Nano 33 BLE.
And now we should be all configured with the board and libraries installed,
and that board selected.
And you can actually see down the bottom right,
it should say Arduino Nano 33 BLE.
And so we should be ready to go for the rest of the course.