BRIAN PLANCHER: Hi, everyone.
This document will help you set up your hardware,
whether you purchase the Tiny Machine Learning kit or your own
off the shelf parts.
We've provided detailed instructions below with lots of pictures and pinout
diagrams and everything else you're going to need.
I thought I'd also provide a visual example of setting up
the kit as well as some tips and tricks for wiring up off the shelf parts.
So let's begin with the kit.
To set up your Tiny Machine Learning kit, what you need to do
is first take out all the parts.
So we have Arduino Nano 33 BLE.
We have our Tiny Machine Learning shield.
We have the OV7675 camera module, which is a little tricky
to get out of the protective plastic.
Oof.
And we have a USB cable.
And since we only have four parts, the kit's
actually quite simple to assemble.
So what we're going to do is first we're going to take the shield
and we're going to place it on a flat surface
with this marking that says USB pointing forward.
We're then going to take the Arduino and make
sure its USB port is also pointing forward
in the same direction of that USB marking on the shield.
And then we're going to place it, these male headers here, into these ports
here on the shield.
And it should sit in, but we're going to have to push it the rest of the way in.
And so the way to do that is to grab it by the outside and sort of gently
rock it back and forth.
And you'll feel it press all the way down.
To attach the camera module, we're going to want to use a similar procedure.
We're going to want to hold it so that the camera itself and the words
OV7675 are pointing away from the Arduino on the board.
And then we can just line up the headers again into these ports here,
which might take a little finagling.
And then we can use that same rocking motion to push it all the way in.
And that's it.
Your kit is fully assembled.
All we need to do then is undo the twist tie.
And then we can attach the USB cable to our computer.
And so the USB cable itself will attach to the front of your Arduino.
And then the other end will just go straight into your computer.
And that's it.
Your kit is all set up and ready to go.
Now if you're using off the shelf parts, the process is at a high level
very similar.
But you're going to have to do a bit more wiring.
So setting this aside for a second, what we suggest using
is a solderless breadboard.
And the reason we suggest that is because it'll
make it a little bit easier to do all of the wiring itself.
And so what you're going to want to do is
you're going to want to take your Arduino.
And hopefully you purchased it with the headers attached.
If the headers came separate like this one
here where you can see the two headers are sort of on the side,
you're going to have to find a friend with a soldering iron
and get those soldered on.
Because the headers need to be rigidly attached for the camera
to work correctly.
So assuming you have one with the headers on, you
can do a similar procedure as what we did to seat the Arduino onto the shield
and seat it into the middle of this breadboard, making
sure one set of the headers is on one side of this main channel
and the other on the other.
And once you do that, you can now use the holes
in the breadboard for all your wires.
And I would look in our document for the pinout tables and wiring diagrams
to make sure you know which wire goes from which hole here
on the breadboard, which connects to the pins on the Arduino,
to which pin on your camera module.
And it's going to take a bit of wiring.
There's 18 wires you're going to have to do.
But after a couple of minutes of wiring, you should be all set and ready to go.
And so I'll see you all in the software install.