BRIAN PLANCHER: Next, we'll be using the Hello World example from the TensorFlow
Lite for microcontrollers library to test out your TensorFlow
install and make sure that all worked correctly.
To do that, we're going to open the Hello World
example by going to File, Example, Arduino TensorFlow Lite, Hello World.
And again, we're going to have a new window come that we can open up,
which is the Hello World example.
Now this one has multiple different files, and I'll mention some of them
briefly in the next short video.
But for now, let's get this deployed to make sure that it will deploy correctly
on your device.
To do that, again, we're going to go up to Tools,
and make sure that the board is set to the Arduino Nano 33 BLE,
and that the port is set to the port that your Arduino is on.
Again, look to the reading for what the port should
look like depending on if you're Windows, Mac, or a Linux operating
system user.
For me, I'm on Windows.
So it's COM, some number.
And in this case, it's 7.
And then, again, just like before, we can click the Upload
button to start compiling the code.
And again, if you have set your preferences
to show the full debug output, you're going to see a lot of things go here.
And this might take a couple of minutes to compile.
But once it's done, we'll see the output on the board.
Now just as a comparison so you know what's coming, right now,
I have the Arduino Blink example going on my board.
And you can see the light turning on and off, blinking.
When we get the Hello World example from the TensorFlow Lite
for microcontrollers library running, what we're going to see
there is that instead of blinking on and off,
the LED is going to follow a sine wave, which is predicted
by the neural network on the board.
Therefore, it will dim on and dim off according to that sine wave, which,
again, is learned by a neural network.
So we're doing the super fancy TensorFlow version of Blink
on this board.
I'll give my computer a minute to finish compiling and uploading the code,
and then we'll look at what the output looks like.
OK, now the Hello World example has finished compiling
and has been uploaded to my board.
We can look over to the board, and we can
see that the LED is now dimming in and out at a much faster rate
than it was before with the Blink example.
And that's exactly what you should expect from the Hello World example.
We'll explore the code in a little bit more detail in the next video.
See you there.