BRIAN PLANCHER: The first sensor that we're going to test is the microphone.
To get to that test example sketch, we're going to go to File, Examples,
and we're going to scroll all the way down and keep
going past this arrow down at the bottom until we get to Harvard_TinyMLx.
And then we will open the Test Microphone sketch.
As always, we need to make sure that the board is set to the Arduino Nano 33,
and that the port is set to whatever port your Arduino is on.
And then we need to click Upload to start compiling and uploading the code.
And once that's uploaded, we'll talk about how we run this test.
All right, so now that you've deployed the code,
let's use it to test your microphone.
To do that, we're going to use the serial monitor and serial
plotter, which allow us to communicate with the Arduino
over the universal [? serial ?] bus, or USB protocol, with which we've used
to connect our Arduino to our computer.
To get to the serial monitor, we're going to go to Tools.
And one quick tip, make sure the port is still selected.
Sometimes, after the board is uploaded with new code, it will reset the port,
and it will sort of deselect.
And so you may have to re-select it there.
So if you run into an error, just go back to there and just check.
So let's open up that serial monitor.
And what we'll see is it'll be a message from our Arduino.
It says, welcome to the microphone test.
Well, thank you very much, Mr. Arduino.
Use the on-shield button, or send the command click
to start and stop an audio recording.
So what we can do is up at the top here, there's this text field.
And we can either send the command click there,
or we can click the button on our shield.
So let's just start by sending the command here.
Now one thing to be careful of is you have to make sure you select NL
and CR-- both NL and CR--
for this to work with our code.
So if we send that command, suddenly numbers
are going to be dropping all over the screen here.
And all of these numbers, this is actually just the waveform
coming off of the microphone.
And I can stop it by sending that click command again,
or I can start it and stop it by clicking the button.
Now this means that there is some communication coming
from the microphone there.
There is data coming off, but these numbers are a little hard to interpret.
So let's open up the serial plotter, which
should help us better visualize this.
Now the serial plotter assumes the numbers coming in
are some sort of time series data and plots it
to the screen, which is kind of exactly what we want here.
So let's send that click command over the serial plotter,
noting that now the text entry field is on the bottom.
And now we'll see a waveform coming across.
And now this looks a lot more like somebody's talking.
If I get closer to the thing and get louder,
you'll see the scale numbers go up.
And if I get a lot quieter where I move over here,
the numbers go a little bit down.
So it seems like at a high level, that's kind of working.
Now one last test you can do, and this is a test
that I am very bad at because I am not a great singer,
is that if you can actually hum or sing a single pitch,
you should end up with a perfect sine wave.
And however far off you are from the perfect pitch,
it's a less perfect sine wave.
But what we're going for is something that's kind of repetitive.
So, for an example, let me give it my best shot here.
And try to make some tone.
So like [HUMMING].
And so that doesn't look like a sine wave.
I'm not a great singer.
But it is a nice repetitive sine-ish, we can call it, thing.
And so I feel pretty confident now that my microphone is roughly
picking up my mediocre singing, and delivering
some sort of repetitive wave, which is exactly what we want.
And so you should try something else yourself at home.
If you're a great singer, if you have perfect pitch,
I challenge you to see how perfect your sine wave can be.
Mine will not be much better than that.
I've actually tried doing this a couple times
on a couple of different recordings, and I'm
going to I'm going to call that good for me for now.
So I'll see you in the next test.